# Agenda for Week 3 meeting

**Date**: 08-05-2023 (Week 4.3)

**Time**: 13:00 - 14:00

**Location**: Echo, Computer Science offices (2nd floor)

## Goals

- Present the individual progress and briefly mention the plans for the coming week (individually)
- Ask the questions

## Timeline

**13:00 - 13:10**: Introduction + Everyone presents their progress and plans for the week

**13:20 - 14:00**: Time for the questions

- Cristian + Jegor + Alex setup: Which parameters do we use for Q2-Q3? Are our current guesses correct?

- What do you think about the metrics that we have found (especially interpretability and completeness)? (We will name then during the meeting)

- We thought of measuring completeness based on the low-, medium- and high-severity episodes (not) captured in the AG states. (Explanation in the meeting). What do you think?

- How precise do you want our comparisons to be? We have written some scripts to assist in prioritising comparisons. What do you think about it?

- Is there a more detailed representation stored for the graph? One containing info on the alerts in the different states, or should we alter SAGE for this?

- Can we assume that paths have weight 1 to calculate distance between nodes? Or should we use the time taken on the edge be used as a weight (as there e.g. also negative time edges in the graph)?

- Should the new urgency metric for the recommender matrix follow the same scaling?

- We have only found the dataset for CPTC-2018 and newer. Are we expected to work only with CPTC-2018?

## Appendix: Allocation of research questions

- `Q1` *How do the attack graphs compare to the baseline when the S-PDFA is swapped with a PDFA?* - Ioan
- `Q2` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of merging the sink states with the main S-PDFA model?* - Jegor
- `Q3` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of making the sink states loop with the last blue state of the main S-PDFA model?*- Alexandru
- `Q5` *Define a prioritization criteria for critical attack episodes, and compare against the baseline criteria. Does the proposed prioritization criteria discover more critical episodes?*- Senne
- `Q6` *How can the interpretability of the attack graphs be quantified?* - Vlad

