# Agenda for Week 2 meeting

**Date**: 01-05-2023 (Week 4.2)

**Time**: 9:00 - 10:00

**Location**: Echo, Computer Science offices (2nd floor)

## Goals

- Present the Research Plan (individually, 5 minutes presenting + 5 minutes Q&A)
- Ask any potential questions

## Timeline

**9:00 - 9:05**: Introduction + setting up

**9:05 - 9:15**: Ioan gives the presentation (Q1)

**9:15 - 9:25**: Jegor gives the presentation (Q2)

**9:25 - 9:35**: Alexandru gives the presentation (Q3)

**9:35 - 9:45**: Senne gives the presentation (Q5)

**9:45 - 9:55**: Vlad gives the presentation (Q6)

**9:55 - 10:00**: potential questions (depending on the time)

## Some of the questions

- For referencing in the (final) paper, is it fine if I reference a paper that actually tells about some other problem (e.g. is it fine to take an idea from the introduction of a paper about SAAT, and use it in my paper, while my paper has nothing to do with SAAT)?

- How should we modify the code when performing experiments: should we do it somewhere on a separate branch (and hence storing the results) or we modify the algorithm only to run it and record the results (i.e. without committing anything)?

- During the last meeting, Azqa mentioned something about automating graph comparisons, to make it more efficient and less manual. Could you give us any hints and/or pointers?

- I can't seem to find/load the AIF used in the paper, where is this available?

- Is `find_severe_states` function in the code the `Severe(episode)` (udf) function in the paper? If not, which function corresponds to this?

## Appendix: Allocation of research questions

- `Q1` *How do the attack graphs compare to the baseline when the S-PDFA is swapped with a PDFA?* - Ioan
- `Q2` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of merging the sink states with the main S-PDFA model?* - Jegor
- `Q3` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of making the sink states loop with the last blue state of the main S-PDFA model?*- Alexandru
- `Q5` *Define a prioritization criteria for critical attack episodes, and compare against the baseline criteria. Does the proposed prioritization criteria discover more critical episodes?*- Senne
- `Q6` *How can the interpretability of the attack graphs be quantified?* - Vlad

