# Agenda for Week 1 meeting

**Date**: 24-04-2023 (Week 4.1)

**Time**: 9:00 - 10:00

**Location**: Echo, Computer Science offices (2nd floor)

## Goals

- Get to know the new team members (Senne and Ioan)
- Clarify general questions about the project: organisational questions (e.g. project timeline, requirements, research plan etc.) + implementation-specific questions (e.g. SAGE, S-PDFA etc.)
- Clarify questions related to specific research questions (for everyone individually)

## Timeline

**9:00 - 9:05**: Introduction

- Opening of the meeting
- Quick introduction (for Senne and Ioan)

**9:05 - 9:20**: General and implementation-specific questions about the project

- Potential organisational questions (e.g. regarding the timeline, requirements, research plan)
- Potential implementation-specific questions (e.g SAGE, S-PDFA etc.)

**9:20 - 9:45**: Questions related to each research subquestion

- Everyone asks questions related to their research questions (starting from Q1 moving on to Q6)

**9:45 - 9:55**: Time for Azqa and Sicco

- Anything that Azqa and Sicco might want to mention

**9:55 - 10:00**: Feedback and Closing

- How was the meeting structured?
- Any tops/tips from Azqa and Sicco?
- Any tops/tips for/from the peer students?

## Appendix: Allocation of research questions

- `Q1` *How do the attack graphs compare to the baseline when the S-PDFA is swapped with a PDFA?* - Ioan
- `Q2` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of merging the sink states with the main S-PDFA model?* - Jegor
- `Q3` *What kind of attack graphs are generated as a result of making the sink states loop with the last blue state of the main S-PDFA model?*- Alexandru
- `Q5` *Define a prioritization criteria for critical attack episodes, and compare against the baseline criteria. Does the proposed prioritization criteria discover more critical episodes?*- Senne
- `Q6` *How can the interpretability of the attack graphs be quantified?* - Vlad

