# Agenda for Week 3 meeting

**Date**: 08-05-2023 (Week 4.3)

**Time**: 13:00 - 14:00

**Location**: Echo, Computer Science offices (2nd floor)

## Timeline


### Jegor + Alex setup: Which parameters do we use for Q2-Q3? Are our current guesses correct?

- Sinks can become non-sinks by merging
- Is it desired? That's an open question

- `printblue`, `printwhite` - to print sinks

- `mergelocal` (merge with states that are close by)

- **For Jegor**: `mergesinkscore=1`, `mergesinks=1`
- **For Alex**: `mergesinkscore=0`, `mergesinks=1` (main model with remain the same, dashed will become solid), they don't change the main model appearance

- Try to print sinks and see what we can do with them

### How precise do you want our comparisons to be? We have written some scripts to assist in prioritising comparisons. What do you think about it?

- How to compare AGs? You have to find it out
- Automation: you can use it, but only as the assistance
- **Focus on the why question**

### We have only found the dataset for CPTC-2018 and newer. Are we expected to work only with CPTC-2018?

- Look only at `suricata_alert_json`
- CPTC-2017, CPTC-2018

### Hypothesis

- What do I expect?
- Why do I expect it?

### Completeness

- Knowing the network topology and existing vulnerabilities is better for completeness, but SAGE is data-driven!
- For discussions: state where in the whole pipeline might be holes (e.g. data has been generated wrongly). The metric/measure is not absolutely perfect!

- Incomplete paths: what the attackers were going for? You have to make the assumptions. Maybe there is some info

## Parallel events

- Negative events, gaps - don't think that these events happen right after each other
- SAGE uses sequence learning, but events might happen in parallel
- AGs are purely sequential, traditional AG papers have AND and OR notions. SAGE doesn't learn them. Be aware of that! SAGE models it with sequences (no order invariance, but gaps)

