# Notes for the kick-off meeting

## The context of the research project

- Analyzing intrusion alerts
- What are attackers doing? A lot of manual work
- They built a ML tool chain that represents the data as attack graphs (which existed in cybersecurity for a long time); discovering patterns in the form of attack graphs
- There are a lot of moving parts. What are the modelling assumptions? What is their impact?
- Docker image is available
- Change parameters, compare the metrics (completeness, size, interpretability etc.)

## What do you expect to see in the research plan?

- Break it down into very small manageable sub-questions
- Show understanding of methodology
- Very general
- **What do you want to do and also why**
- Time plan

## What should we expect in terms of the workload?

- This is a full-time project
- Papers have to be read and understood
- It is fine to discuss potential questions

- What are you going to do? Why? => Reading papers, discussing, writing summaries
- The more papers you read, the better
- Trying some experiments
- This is our thing, better to be proactive, document every single step and why have done this

## What about the meetings and general communication?

- Be proactive in communication, between ourselves and with them
- Prepare questions, they don't know what we are struggling with

- Make slides (with some visualisations) for the meetings
- Agenda is also very nice, we can share it with them in advance

## Passing the course vs a higher grade?

- If you want a higher grade, you have to do more, something new, what they haven't though of
- You have to do more than they say, what they did not think of. Which also makes sense.
- Outcome + something else that they did not even think of asking.
- This will give you a higher grade

## Other remarks about the project?

- Visual understanding of the outcome, but less experiments (they are quick)
- Play around and do experiments

- In the planning, if you do detours, please write it down, why something went wrong?
- Document stuff. Take into account all scenarios
- Use the scientific method
- **Motivation is important!!!** (we will also get questions during the presentation)

## Collaboration

- It is nice to discuss things because this is research, but do your own project out of it (yourself)

## Allocation of the research questions

- Question 4 can be excluded
- Question 5 was the next to be excluded...
- Indicate your preferences in the communication platform after you have read reference 3

## Initial instructions

- Read reference 3,9 (for question 6, reference 7 is important)
- Indicate your preferences in the communication platform after you have read reference 3
- Download code, play around with it

## Fix the meeting times for Q4 (and the communication platform)

- Monday 13.00 in Echo
- Create a repetitive calendar invite

